New JavaScript Debugging Doc (#781)
microsoft/react-native-windows-samples: docs/debugging-javascript.md

#### Option 2: Using the Developer Menu

Web Debugging can also be enabled at runtime via the in-app Developer Menu.

1. With your RNW app running, press `Ctrl+Shift+D` to invoke the Developer Menu
2. Click *Enable Remote JS Debugging*

The app then should automatically refresh with Web Debugging enabled.

### Step 2: Connect a debugger

The next step is to connect to Metro with your chosen debugger / development tools.

> This must happen before the native app attempts to download the JS bundle from Metro. If a debugger is not already attached, Metro will automatically attempt to set up the Edge Developer Tools.

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

<!--Edge DevTools-->

#### Using the Edge Developer Tools

You can web debug within Edge by using the [Edge Developer Tools](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/).

> If you use Chrome, the process is similar for using the [Chrome Developer Tools](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/).

1. Launch your RNW app (with Web Debugging enabled and Metro running)
2. In Edge, open the URL http://localhost:8081/debugger-ui/
    > Metro may have already opened it, look for a *React Native Debugger* tab.

> 3. Press `Ctrl+Shift+J` on the page to launch the Developer Tools

Reviewer: I've been using Ctrl+Shift+I all this time. TIL that both I or J work.

    ```json
    {
        "name": "Debug Windows",
        "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
        "type": "reactnative",
        "request": "launch",
        "platform": "windows",
        "isDynamic": true
    }
    ```
    3. Ensure that Metro, your native app, and/or any browser Developer Tools are **not** already running
    4. Ensure the new config is selected at the top of the *Run and Debug* sidebar
    5. Click on the ▶️ button or press `F5` in VS Code
    > Watch VS Code's *Debug Console* output for a successful debugger connection. This can be very slow, but VS Code should automatically launch Metro, establish the debugger connection, then launch your native app to download the bundle.
6. **Option B:** Attach VS Code to Metro that's already running
    1. Click on the ⚙️ to the right of *Attach to packager*
    2. A new configuration should appear in your `launch.json` file. Rename it if you want but it should look like:
    ```json
    {
        "name": "Attach to packager",
        "cwd": "${workspaceFolder}",
        "type": "reactnative",
        "request": "attach",
        "isDynamic": true
    }
    ```

>     3. Ensure sure that only Metro is already running (i.e. `npx react-native start`)

Reviewer 2: >Ensure sure [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=7&length=11)

"Make sure"?

>     3. Ensure sure that only Metro is already running (i.e. `npx react-native start`)

Author: ```suggestion
    3. Make sure that only Metro is already running (i.e. `npx react-native start`)

```

    4. Ensure the new config is selected at the top of the *Run and Debug* sidebar
    5. Click on the ▶️ button or press `F5` in VS Code
    6. Confirm the address of the Metro server (default: `localhost`)
    7. Confirm the port of the Metro server (default: `8081`)
    > Watch VS Code's *Debug Console* output for a successful debugger connection.

    8. Manually launch your native app

Once everything is running, you should be able to debug your RNW application. To set breakpoints, simply do so in your app's JS source files directly in VS Code.

> Remember to save `launch.json` so you can reuse this debugging configuration in the future.

> > *Important:* If you're having difficulty getting VS Code to connect with Web Debugging, make extra sure you're not running any part of RNW (watch out for rogue `node.exe` processes) before starting the steps above.

Reviewer 2: >make extra sure [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=90&length=15)

Re-phrase? E.g. "Double check"

> > *Important:* If you're having difficulty getting VS Code to connect with Web Debugging, make extra sure you're not running any part of RNW (watch out for rogue `node.exe` processes) before starting the steps above.

Author: ```suggestion
> *Important:* If you're having difficulty getting VS Code to connect with Web Debugging, double check you're not running any part of RNW (watch out for rogue `node.exe` processes) before starting the steps above.

```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Direct Debugging

*Direct Debugging* is the newer JS debugging solution for RN.

Rather than running your app's JS code on an external JS engine (as with Web Debugging), with Direct Debugging you run your app's code on its embedded engine (as normal). You are then able to attach your debugger directly to the embedded engine.

> Direct Debugging requires the Metro Packager, as Metro provides keys parts of the debugging experience such as JS source mapping.

### Direct Debugging Tool Support

| JavaScript Engine | Visual Studio | Visual Studio Code | Visual Studio Code<br/> w/ React Native Tools |
|:------------------|:-:|:-:|:-:|
| Chakra (Default)  | ✅ | 🟥 | 🟥 |
| Hermes            | 🟥 | ✅ | ✅ |

> **Important:** Direct Debugging is relatively new and may still have some rough edges, depending on your choice of engine and debugger. See [Web vs. Direct Debugging](#web-vs-direct-debugging) for details.

### Step 1: Enable Direct Debugging

> You have two options to enable Direct Debugging: at compile-time in your app's native code or at runtime via the in-app Developer Menu.

Reviewer: Also from CLI, yeah? `npx react-native run-windows --direct-debugging`
https://github.com/microsoft/react-native-windows/commit/c1a2140928b37d9c761c41bfa0fcc38704a14099

Author: Yes but I had trouble getting it to work - I think there may be a bug where those settings get overwritten.

    8. Manually launch your native app (if it wasn't already running)

Once everything is running, you should be able to debug your RNW application. To set breakpoints, simply do so in your app's JS source files directly in VS Code.

> Remember to save `launch.json` so you can reuse this debugging configuration in the future.

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

## Web vs. Direct Debugging

As mentioned above, RNW supports both Web and Direct Debugging, and it's worth knowing when to use each.

Web Debugging is the older, more well-established of the two debugging solutions. It relies on the powerful in-browser debugging tools already familiar to web developers. This reinforces RN's purpose of enabling web developers to build native apps with web technologies.

However, Web Debugging is not without its limitations. The primary problem is that JS can behave slightly differently when running in different JS engines. As such, by developing (and testing) your app while using a browser to run the JS, you might miss bugs or other issues that only manifest when running your app normally with the embedded JS engine.

> This puts extra onus on developers to test all of their app's functionality in their release build, or otherwise risks situations where customers find bugs in production that aren't reproducible when using Web Debugging.

Reviewer 2: >onus [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=16&length=4)

Could we use an alternative word? It seems to be a quite rare word which I personally see the first time. The docs should be readable not only to native English speakers.
